the book of Haggai in the second year of
king darius in the sixth month on the
first day of the month the word of the
lord came by haggai the prophet to
zerubbabel the son of shealtiel governor
of judah and to joshua the son of
josedech the high priest thus speaks the
Lord of Hosts saying this people says
the time has not come the time that the
Lord's house should be built is it time
for you yourselves to dwell in your
paneled houses and this temple to lie in
ruins
now therefore thus says the Lord of
hosts consider your ways you have sown
much and bring in little you eat but do
not have enough you drink but you are
not filled with drink you clothe
yourselves but no one is warm and he who
earns wages earns wages to put into a
bag with holes thus says the Lord of
hosts consider your ways
go up to the mountains and bring wood
and build the temple that I may take
pleasure in it and be glorified says the
Lord you looked for much but indeed it
came too little and when you brought it
home
I blew it away why says the Lord of
Hosts because of my house that is in
ruins while every one of you runs to his
own house
therefore the heavens above you withhold
the dual and the earth withholds its
fruit for I called for a drought on the
land and the mountains on the grain and
the new wine and the oil on whatever the
ground brings falls on men and livestock
and on all the labor of your hands then
Zara bauble the son of shealtiel and
joshua the son of josedech the high
priest with all the remnant of the
people obeyed the voice of the Lord
their God and the words of haggai the
prophet as the Lord their God had sent
him and the people fear the presence of
the Lord then Haggai the Lord's
messenger spoke the Lord's message to
the people I am with you says the Lord
so the Lord stirred up the spirit of
zerubbabel the son of shealtiel governor
of judah and the spirit of joshua the
son of josedech the high priest and the
spirit of all the remnant of the people
and they came and worked on the house of
the lord of hosts their God on the 24th
day of the sixth month in the second
year of King Darius
[Music]